The President:
This Memorial Day weekend,
Americans will gather on lawns
and porches, fire up the grill,
and enjoy the company of family,
friends, and neighbors.
But this is not only a
time for celebration,
it's also a time to reflect on
what this holiday is all about;
to pay tribute to
our fallen heroes;
and to remember the servicemen
and women who cannot be with us
this year because they are
standing post far from home --
in Iraq, Afghanistan,
and around the world.
On Friday, I traveled
to Annapolis,
where I spoke at the
Commencement of the United
States Naval Academy.
It was an honor to address some
of America's newest sailors and
Marines as their
Commander-in-Chief.
Looking out at all of
those young men and women,
I was reminded of the
extraordinary service that they
are rendering to our country.
And I was reminded, too, of
all the sacrifices that their
parents, siblings, and loved
ones make each day on their
behalf and on our behalf.
Our fighting men and women -- and the military families who
love them -- embody
what's best in America.
And we have a responsibility to
serve all of them as well as
they have served us.
And yet, all too often in
recent years and decades, we,
as a nation, have failed to
live up to that responsibility.
We've failed to give them the
support they need or pay them
the respect they deserve.
That's a betrayal of the sacred
trust that America has with all
who wear -- and all who have
worn -- the proud uniform of our country.
And that is a sacred trust
I am committed to keeping as
President of the United States.
That's why I will send our
servicemen and women into harm's
way only when it's necessary,
and ensure that they have the
training and equipment they need
when they enter the theater of war.
That's why we're building a
21st century Department of
Veterans Affairs with the
largest single-year funding
increase in three decades.
It's a commitment that will help
us provide our veterans with the
support and benefits
they have earned,
and expand quality health care
to a half million more veterans.
That's why, this week, I signed
a bill that will eliminate some
of the waste and inefficiency in
our defense projects -- reform
that will better
protect our nation,
better protect our troops, and
save taxpayers tens of billions
of dollars.
And that's why we're laying a
new foundation for our economy
so that when our troops return
home and take off the uniform,
they can find a good job,
provide for their families,
and earn a college degree on
a Post-9/11 GI Bill that will
offer them the same opportunity
to live out their dreams that
was afforded our
greatest generation.
These are some of the
ways we can, must,
and will honor the service of
our troops and the sacrifices of
their families.
But we must also do our
part, not only as a nation,
but as individuals for those
Americans who are bearing the
burden of wars being
fought on our behalf.
That can mean sending a letter
or a care package to our troops overseas.
It can mean volunteering at a
clinic where a wounded warrior
is being treated or bringing
supplies to a homeless veterans center.
Or it can mean something as
simple as saying "thank you" to
a veteran you pass
on the street.
That's what Memorial
Day is all about.
It's about doing all we can to
repay the debt we owe to those
men and women who have answered
our nation's call by fighting
under its flag.
It's about recognizing
that we, as a people,
did not get here by accident
or good fortune alone.
It's about remembering
the hard winter of 1776,
when our fragile American
experiment seemed doomed to
fail; and the early battles of
1861 when a union victory was
anything but certain;
and the summer of 1944,
when the fate of a world rested
on a perilous landing unlike any
ever attempted.
It's about remembering each and
every one of those moments when
our survival as a nation came
down not simply to the wisdom of
our leaders or the
resilience of our people,
but to the courage and valor
of our fighting men and women.
For it's only by remembering
these moments that we can truly
appreciate a simple lesson of
American life -- that what makes
all we are and all we aspire to
be possible are the sacrifices
of an unbroken line of Americans
that stretches back to our
nation's founding.
That's the meaning
of this holiday.
That's a truth at the
heart of our history.
And that is a lesson I hope all
Americans will carry with them
this Memorial Day
weekend and beyond.
Thank you.